the temple church is just offer free
Street in the inner and middle temple
complex perhaps the best way to find it
is to go in through the entrance under
Prince Henry's rooms which are just
opposite the end of Chancery Lane the
building was consecrated on februari the
10th 1185 by heraclius the Crusader
Patrick of Jerusalem probably in the
presence of Henry the second it was a
church of the Knights Templar the
building consists of two parts the round
church which is the building consecrated
in 1185 and the Chancellor which was
added around 1240 the church is of
course now more famous and well known
since the appearance of Dan Brown's book
The Da Vinci Code in which it features
and now of course it will be even more
famous after appearing in this film
we'll look first out the chancel and
later at the Round Church the building
survived the Great Fire of 1666
unscathed but was nevertheless subjected
to some restoration by Ren than the
Victorians shall we say modernized much
of the structure
on the tenth of May 1941 during the
Battle of Britain German incendiary
bombs badly damaged the building it was
restored and rededicated in 1958 so
taken all together the church doesn't
look quite as old as it ought to
incidentally the reredos which we saw
earlier was designed by Sir Christopher
Wren and carved by William Emmet's it
survived the 1944 bombing because at the
time it was in the bowes museum in
Durham it was restored to his position
here in the post-war restoration
today the temple church serves those who
work in the temple area the head of the
church has the title master of the
temple after the head of the order of
the Knights Templar each section of the
temple us in the temple and little
temple has its own whole garden course
library cetera but the church is shared
by both let's now move westwards into
the run church the order of the Knights
Templar was formed in 1118 to protect
pilgrims on their journeys through the
Holy Land the order grew rich and
powerful by receiving gifts and from
running the 1st international bank they
were answerable only to the Pope
personally later they fell from grace
and the order was suppressed in 1314
this area is where they held their
services of worship and their secret
initiation rites here you will find 10 I
think it is effigies of nights including
perhaps the most famous William marshal
one of my ancestors and here also is
great-uncle Gilbert William marshal 1146
to 1219 has been described as the
greatest night that ever lived no small
compliment he served for kings and with
a second Richard the first John and
Henry the third the title Marshall means
in our parlance head of security for the
monarch he held battle experience in
Europe mainly France and in Syria and
the Holy Land
he was the only person who had ever
unseated richard the lionheart in
conflict when King John was dying his
son Henry was only a juvenile and he
appointed Marshall as regent of the
nation this of course heightened his
profile even more and people throughout
Europe not just England knew him simply
as the marshal upon hearing of Marshalls
death in 12 19 the King of France said
that William marshal was the true flower
of chivalry mainly perhaps because of
his service in the holy land on his
deathbed he was inducted into the night
templer